# Bayesian Flow Networks
A Python implementation of the
[Bayesian Flow Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.07037) paper.

# Overview

_Disclaimer: The paper is hard to read - in particular, the message compression
formulation obscures more than it illuminates. Therefore, it is possible that I
have misunderstood it. Please send corrections to
[hi@javid.io](mailto:hi@javid.io)._

The motivation for the paper is that autoregressive models are inefficient,
because generating a sequence of $T$ elements requires $T$ inference steps. In
a diffusion model, the sequence can be generated using $D$ denoising steps, and
$D << T$.

Unfortunately, diffusion models do not work well for discrete data. So, instead
of denoising a data point, one models each element of the output sequence as
being generated by a probability distribution and iteratively refines these
distributions. The parameters of these distributions can be continuous.

Initially, each element's probability distribution is modelled as the maximum
entropy distribution (the uniform distribution for discrete data and the
normal distribution for continuous data). At each iteration, the network
updates the parameters for each element's distribution, to bring it closer to
the joint probability distribution of the training set.

If each element were independent, training this model would be easy: sample a
sequence $x$ from the training set and compute the distribution parameters that
might have been used to generate each element of $x$. Bayesian inference
provides closed-form solutions to the update equations required to bring the
model's parameters closer to representing the training data.

Unfortunately, the elements are not independent, and so the relationship
between them must also be modelled. This is done by training a neural network
which, at each iteration in the generative process, modifies the parameters of
each element's probability distribution to account for the other elements.

# Other implementations

* [Bayesian-Flow-Networks](https://github.com/Algomancer/Bayesian-Flow-Networks)
* [bayesian-flow-pytorch](https://github.com/thorinf/bayesian-flow-pytorch)
